"girl!”
“Seven of ’em!”
“What a pity!”
“The land sakes alive! Brother Endicott will have to buy calico by the piece for their gowns! He might get a little throwed off, or a spool of cotton extry. He, he! ho, ho! Well, children are a great risk! You don’t s’pose there’ll be a donation party right away—do you!”
“There is donation enough for the present, I think; and the sewing society will not be called upon.”
I liked that soft, silvery voice of Mrs. Whitcomb.[Pg 10] It was just like her pretty light hair, beginning to be plentifully sprinkled with silver, and her clear peachy skin, that was just a little wrinkled. Her touch was so gentle, her motions so graceful and pleasing!
“I was only joking about it. They’ll miss her in the s’ciety—that’s what they will.”
Aunt Letty Perkins was—dreadful! a thorn in the flesh; a sort of bitter, puckery presence, as if you had just tasted an unripe persimmon.
“And it’ll be a puzzle to get husbands for ’em all. That’s the most unfort’net thing about girls.”
I suppose she meant us, not the society. My face was in a blaze of indignation. Then the door was shut, and I went on with my dusting.
It was a sunny April morning, and a pair of swallows were twittering about the windows.
Another girl and there were seven of us. Some one in the parish had said that Mrs. Endicott would always be sure of a Sunday school class, for she could fill it up with her own children. I couldn’t help wishing that there was just one boy among us, even if it were that wee bairnie they had been discussing. Boys are nice—in some ways.
, jerked her shawl up, and pinned it, and settled her old black bonnet more askew than ever. Mrs. Whitcomb kindly pulled it straight for her.
“Thank’ee. If you want any help, Mrs. Whitcomb, send right straight over. Ministers are always the chosen of the Lord, and I feel as if one ought to come at their call.”
“I am much obliged,” returned Mrs. Whitcomb, in her quiet, lady-like way.
Mrs. Downs took her departure at the same moment. There was a great bustle, and talking; but father finally succeeded in getting them to the porch. When Aunt Letty was safely off the steps, she turned and said,—
“I’m glad you are so well satisfied, Mr. Endicott. It’s a sure sign of grace to take thankfully what the Lord sends.”
“O, dear,” said papa, with a sigh; “I am afraid I don’t give thanks for quite everything. ‘Tribulation worketh patience.’ But didn’t those women almost set you crazy? If I thought another sermon on bridling the tongue would do[Pg 20] any good; I should preach it next Sunday.”
Mrs. Whitcomb smiled and said, in her cool, silvery voice,
“It takes a great deal of powder and shot to kill a man in battle, and it takes a great deal of preaching to save a soul.”
“Yes. I get almost discouraged when I find how strong the old Adam is in human souls.”
I looked at papa rather reproachfully; but just then he opened the door of mamma’s room, and called me thither.
Mamma was very sweet and lovely. She kissed me many times, and hoped I would prove a trusty house-keeper, and see that papa had everything he needed, especially to notice that his cuffs and handkerchiefs were clean, and that he was in nice order on Sunday.
“And—did I like the baby?” She asked it almost bashfully.
“It is just as sweet as it can be. I only wish it was large enough to hold and to carry about.”
“Thank you, dear.”
Years afterwards I knew what that meant.
I went out to the kitchen to see about the dinner. We never had regular servants like other people. It was the lame, and the halt,[Pg 21] and the blind, and the ignorant, metaphorically speaking. Papa brought them home and mamma took pity on them. Now it was Becky Sill, a great, overgrown girl of sixteen, whose intemperate father had just died in the poorhouse, where the three younger children—boys—were waiting for a chance to be put out to the farmers.
“Look at this ’ere floor, Miss Rose! I’ve scrubbed it white as snow. And I’ve been a peelin’ of pertaters.”